README.md, before:

# metricdump

A tool to save Prometheus metrics into SVC/PNG.  
For experimental purpose, prometheus-snapshot supports to render SVG by JSDom, render PNG by node-canvas, and SVG, PNG and HTML by Chromium.

Given that the underlying chart library is Apache Echart, a library for browser, using Chromium and rendering backend will output the best quality PNG.  
You can see the images in [https://github.com/lawrenceching/prometheus-snapshot/tree/main/example](https://github.com/lawrenceching/prometheus-snapshot/tree/main/example) generated by different backends. 


![Example - Node CPU Usage](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/lawrenceching/prometheus-snapshot/main/example/chromium/Node%20CPU%20Usage.svg)

|  Renderer   | Backend  | Output |
|  ----  | ----  | ----  |
| SVG  | JSDom | .svg  |
| Canvas  | node-canvas | .svg  |
| SVG  | Chromium | .svg & .html  |
| Canvas  | Chromium | .png & .html  |

### Get Started

#### From Command Line

Node.js 16

* Please note that Node.js 17 is not currently supported

```bash
git clone https://github.com/lawrenceching/prometheus-snapshot.git
npm install

# Or if you're in China
npm install --registry=https://registry.npmmirror.com
```

##### Save one metric as SVG

```bash
node src/main.js \
  --promql 'sum(rate(prometheus_notifications_latency_seconds_sum[5m]))/sum(rate(prometheus_notifications_latency_seconds_count[5m]))' \
  --unit second \
  --prometheus https://prometheus.demo.do.prometheus.io \
  --since 1h \
  --renderer svg \
  --output ./example
```

##### Save series of metrics as SVG

```bash
node src/main.js \
  --metrics ./example/metrics.yaml \
  --prometheus https://prometheus.demo.do.prometheus.io \
  --since 7d \
  --renderer svg \
  --output ./example
```

#### From Docker

```bash
# Run prometheus-snapshot container to save metrics, files will be stored at /tmp/metrics inside the container
docker run \
  --name prometheus-snapshot \
  --mount type=bind,source="$(pwd)"/example/metrics.yaml,target=/etc/prometheus-snaphost/metrics.yaml,readonly \
  --network container-network \
  -e DEBUG="main" \
  -e PROMETHEUS=https://prometheus.demo.do.prometheus.io \
  -e START="1637219314" \
  -e END="1637478514" \
  prometheus-snapshot

# Get container id
ID=$(docker container ls -all  | grep prometheus-snapshot | cut -d ' ' -f 1)

# Copy files out from container
docker cp $ID:/tmp/metrics ./

# Remove container
docker container rm $ID
```

Commit message:

#8 Using human-readable start and end time instead of unit time in seconds

README.md, after:

# metricdump

A tool to save Prometheus metrics into SVC/PNG.  
For experimental purpose, prometheus-snapshot supports to render SVG by JSDom, render PNG by node-canvas, and SVG, PNG and HTML by Chromium.

Given that the underlying chart library is Apache Echart, a library for browser, using Chromium and rendering backend will output the best quality PNG.  
You can see the images in [https://github.com/lawrenceching/prometheus-snapshot/tree/main/example](https://github.com/lawrenceching/prometheus-snapshot/tree/main/example) generated by different backends. 


![Example - Node CPU Usage](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/lawrenceching/prometheus-snapshot/main/example/chromium/Node%20CPU%20Usage.svg)

|  Renderer   | Backend  | Output |
|  ----  | ----  | ----  |
| SVG  | JSDom | .svg  |
| Canvas  | node-canvas | .svg  |
| SVG  | Chromium | .svg & .html  |
| Canvas  | Chromium | .png & .html  |

### Get Started

#### From Command Line

Node.js 16

* Please note that Node.js 17 is not currently supported

```bash
git clone https://github.com/lawrenceching/prometheus-snapshot.git
npm install

# Or if you're in China
npm install --registry=https://registry.npmmirror.com
```

```bash
Options:
  -V, --version                output the version number
  --since <since>              Record metric since last XXX s/m/h/d (seconds/minutes/hours/days), default in seconds
  --start <time>               Record metric started from the given time, in format yyyy-MM-ddThh:mm:ss
  --end <time>                 Record metric end at the given time, in format yyyy-MM-ddThh:mm:ss
  --width <px>                 The width of the generated SVG or PNG file (default: "1024")
  --height <px>                The height of the generated SVG or PNG file (default: "600")
  --backend <title>            Backend of renderer. Supports node-canvas or chromium
  --title <title>              The title of graph
  --output <title>             The output SVG/PNG file path (default: "./output")
  --renderer <title>           The renderer, svg or canvas (default: "canvas")
  --step <step>                The step for query Prometheus metric
  --promql <query>             The PromQL to query
  --unit <unit>                The unit for the metric.
  --showLegend <boolean>       Display legend
  --headless <headless>        Launch Chromium in headless mode or not
  --metrics <yaml1,yaml2,...>  List of paths to the metric file which defined a series of metrics need to be recorded
  --prometheus <url>           The url to Prometheus (default: "http://localhost:9090")
  -h, --help                   display help for command
  ```

##### Save one metric as SVG

```bash
node src/main.js \
  --promql 'sum(rate(prometheus_notifications_latency_seconds_sum[5m]))/sum(rate(prometheus_notifications_latency_seconds_count[5m]))' \
  --unit second \
  --prometheus https://prometheus.demo.do.prometheus.io \
  --since 1h \
  --renderer svg \
  --output ./example
```

##### Save series of metrics as SVG

```bash
node src/main.js \
  --metrics ./example/metrics-http.yaml \
  --prometheus https://prometheus.demo.do.prometheus.io \
  --since 7d \
  --renderer svg \
  --output ./example
```

#### From Docker

```bash
# Run prometheus-snapshot container to save metrics, files will be stored at /tmp/metrics inside the container
docker run \
  --name prometheus-snapshot \
  --mount type=bind,source="$(pwd)"/example/metrics-http.yaml,target=/etc/prometheus-snaphost/metrics-http.yaml,readonly \
  -e DEBUG="main" \
  -e PROMETHEUS=https://prometheus.demo.do.prometheus.io \
  -e START="2022-01-01T00:00:00" \
  -e END="2022-01-02T10:30:00" \
  prometheus-snapshot

# Get container id
ID=$(docker container ls -all  | grep prometheus-snapshot | cut -d ' ' -f 1)

# Copy files out from container
docker cp $ID:/tmp/metrics ./

# Remove container
docker container rm $ID
```
